"From here, there is the post-meditation exercise, and that means always keep that motivation. Keep
that awareness and realization with our own awareness. Be aware of it."
"So that means here, taste it. Whatever you do, you drink. Whether you are sleeping, whether you
are standing, whatever you are performing, if you can, occasionally, really look to your mind."
"Where you are walking, where you are sitting, even you are doing some functioning and things, but
if you can, look to your own mind."
"What do you see? Again, it will reactivate your meditation, what you discover, the nature of the
mind."
"And then, what the great Master Chakra Chodoro said in the teaching, when you are relaxing on the
nail, neck, your mind, and doing the performing of some jewels or activities, then it looks almost
like it is all dream."
"Mind is empty, and activity, all is also a kind of dream activity, really. You begin to see that.
Begin to see. And those are good seeing. Those are according to teaching. That's the way things are
."
"And so, then everything becomes. And during that time, then also, again, is the blessings of the
devotion. And again, it sits here, so I won't have trouble. I mean, we all know this. This is
already been making many time to do the practices."
"And now, do the devotion, so that means devotion practices, really, those all with thought of the
bodhicitta, great joy in appreciation of the grateful bodhicitta, devotion, those are all so
important we can do that during the post-meditation."
"Those are also known as the accumulation merits. There are two merits, we all heard that. Accum
ulation merits, worship merits, these are our devotion, our joy, our appreciation, our bodhicitta,
our thought, and that intention. And all those are known as meritually, accumulation merits."
"Merit, so therefore, combination of the worship merits and accumulation merits, then, really,
realization will come. So, easily, beautiful."
"And so, then, continually, that our devotion, our motivation is so important, and for that reason,
and again, great Master explained in the page 27, also is devotionally and during the service with
devotion to the three duels, whether dharma sangha and do physical activities."
Many times, before we said, "Oh, I don't have the time to do practice because I'm helping all the
three duels or making service to the three duels, but every have the good heart with joy and
devotion."
"This is what great Master said, this really will bring more benefit to realization than even just
sitting without it, to good, not more, can't do, activated, meditation, meditating."
"So, it will bring more benefit, which is oscillated there. So, therefore, it sit here, and that's
you. You can see this. This is very important. That is, for example, if we use, for example, malare
va."
Malareva, according to the teaching, he said so many years, maybe nine years or ten years, with mal
areva. During that time, what he did, he's walking.
He's helping and supporting and drawing the jewels, what Marpa said, and then, of course, the great
Master Marpa is not always happy with malareva, but comes again in the years in school and says, "
You didn't do right, correct, but now you have to do this and that."
But this and that, things really did that. But according to the teaching, according to many of us,
that because his dedication, courage, and commitment, his devotion of the two thousand malareva, he
never changed, lingered the mind during that times.
And that purified his obscurations. When he went to the retreat, hermitage, then he immediately
boost up his realization or shine up there. This is one example of that, walking, helping with them
to others.
This means bodhijata activity. Generally, helping with the sharing of the Bodhada Dharma Sangha is
activity of the poor to benefit others, beings. So it's bodhijata activity.
Then we looked to the, what's it called? The Talopas. The Talopas. Again, sorry, Naropas. Naropa,
the other day we're talking, he again went all through, he counter with the Talopa and in the
teaching he said, and he said so many years, I don't remember exactly the number of years, but so
many years,
during that time, Talopa did not give one word of teachings. Teachings, teachings, except all
things to have to do that made so much trouble to Naropa, one after another.
Many times, with our folks, now we think, oh, Talopa is crazy. Talopa is crazy, and Talopa is doing
all these things, why he do this and all that things, but Naropa did not get any really hesitation.
Hesitation, doubt, anything. He continually did, served teacher as he wanted, as he asked to do,
and then he got the realization.
And then, of course, there's another, there's so many others, and for example, it's very famous,
the new master who came in the late 19th century, early 20th century, he was master or the root
teacher of the great temple, temple Makchung.
Makchung, and he's, Khipun Makchung is a large story, of the Otro, Otro, Otro bio-rock is
translated into English, I think it's called medical dance.
Wondrous dance of allusions. Wondrous dance of allusions. That large story is really one of the
best life stories of Otro Barakas, so powerful, so beautiful.
When you read, of course you see what the temple Makchung did, but also it tells, tells so much
teachings, it can absorb in our heart and mind, it's really beautiful.
These great masters, and also in these great masters, considering emanation of the Brahman Mathur
and the Lumkipa, truly was very great masters. He was also one of the root teachers of his Holiness
, Jadarumut.
Jadarumut, that very famous Lumkipa master, that was passed three years ago, so his Jadarumut is
teacher's teacher.
Yochu Lungdo, this large story of the magical illusion dance of what? Wondrous dance of allusion.
Wondrous dance of the illusion in that teaching, explained many times of the, his teachers say,
like, teaching, teaching by Kimbong, literally, many times, explaining that.
So this Kimbong, this Yochu Lungdo, is the disciple, the foremost disciple of the popular Rummusch,
was foremost disciple.
He stayed with the popular Rummusch, popular Rummusch, I think maybe 20 years, and serving popular
Rummusch. Of course popular Rummusch is hermitage.
Very simple, not like the lupa, not like Marbak. Very gentle and peaceful, yet he's been serving.
Serving, helping him is.
Kimbong, the new Yochu Lungdo, is really one of the great masters, also his teachings.
Teachings, so powerful, so strong, strong, and also so knowledgeable. He was also a student of Marb
ak too. He's a teacher from Marbak too.
But it's really powerful, because of also, he's not just went to the academic school and started
and then become that great scholar, great meditator, and made it in so many caves.
But he's been serving, helping or serving the popular Rummusch, or as attendance.
And the teaching says that one time, there is very shortage of the teas.
In the way the tea leaves are, at that time, not always easy to get tea leaves, because they have
to come from China or either India.
So then, they have a small amount of tea, and Yochu Lungdo, the teacher of the Kimbong Makyong, is
making tea for part of the rummusches.
So they put one tea, whatever put the tea on the board, and then they make the tea.
And morning tea is really very good, nice color and flavor, all that good.
Then that same tea leaves, they use again in the mid days.
Then it gets weaker, of course, it gets weaker and weaker.
Then even at the time, they make that same tea leaf and use again, like cheese.
Then it's really very weak.
So what part of the rummusches say, "Oh, we're going to have three coyotes, three coyotes."
Morning tea is Nirmakaya tea, or Sambokaya tea, and Apranthu tea is Sambokaya tea, and evening tea
is Dharmakaya tea.
At one time, they also had some, because they practice on hermitage.
So in the winter time, sometimes those devotees like to bring the food, it's kind of difficult to
get places.
So they made practices, and they had also already a short food.
A short food becomes very kind of small.
And then at that time, he had one bowl of his disciples,
has one kind of size of butter.
In Italy, they make the butter, because it's not like a bowl of butter.
So where he got that butter, his mother gave him.
His mother gave him that bowl of butter, a bowl of butter.
So then Nyukil Nodoh is offering that butter, and from that butter, to every day, to popular rummus
ches.
And one day he asked, "Where have you got this kind of steady-looking butter?"
"Where have you got this butter?"
He said, "I've got this from my mother."
He said, "Oh, are you meditating on the mother? How kind is this?"
He said, "He's not drawing too much."
"Oh, you should do that. Look at this. Mother did this."
"Why did this happen?" "Because the mother is also poor."
Nyukil Nodoh mother is poor. She has only one pimal yaks.
And from that one pimal yak, when he was a milk counter, he made the butter,
and he put one butter here, a small one there, and he added the next day or whatever there.
Add the butter today, and next day add butter.
So many days collected butter, so therefore he's kind of strange and all that.
So that's the how. And because of the reminding of that butter,
and then Nyukil, the butter told,
you go other side of the wood and meditate it for seven days
about the kindness of all the mothers.
So he did that. In the teaching he said,
so this is, again, this is just a story of the service of the three Jewels.
He really bring a lot of realization. I mean, it's unbelievable that in the teaching said.
That's what he said.
And then, I mean, this all, like that, you know.
And now, and then here, in the bed, 29.